[Music]
welcome to Japanese cooking 101 today we
are making tempura tempura is one of the
most famous Japanese food outside of
Japan it is battered and deep-fried
seafood and vegetables tempura can be as
formal as you want it to be at very
expensive tempura specialty restaurants
in Japan or casual home cooking will
show you the simple yet authentic way to
make tasty tempura right at home let's
take a look at the ingredients we have
shrimp and vegetables that are great for
tempura green beans cabbages sweet
potatoes and Japanese eggplants for
batter we use some cake flour cake flour
has lower protein content than
all-purpose flour and that makes the
batter to be light and crispy we also
add a bit of salt and baking powder
another important part of the ingredient
is water it has to be very cold we leave
a few ice cubes in the water when mixing
the batter we also need some vegetable
oil for deep-frying for the exact
measurement zone and the list of
ingredients please visit our website
Japanese cooking 101.com okay let's
begin first we prep everything that we
are going to deep-fry before making the
batter or heating the oil slice the
vegetables about 1/4 inch thick and
shrimp after peeling and cleaning the
shrimp we want to straighten the shrimp
a little bit instead of being all curled
up so we make some diagonal cuts on the
surface to help straighten even if we do
that it's hard to make it perfect
straight when you fry so if you want to
skip this process altogether that's fine
too now we have everything ready to go
we can start heating up the oil and
preparing the batter in a small
we have some cake flour baking powder
and salt stir it very well with the
whisk you should mix it well now because
once you pour the water you don't want
to mix it too much now pour ice water
and here's the most important part mix
only 10 times yes you should count one
two three four five six seven eight nine
ten yes that's it it doesn't look like
it's mixed but that's how you want it
don't over mix here we have some
vegetable oil at high temperature at 375
degrees Fahrenheit we dip the vegetables
in cold butter and drop it in hot frying
oil one by one don't put too much at a
time and you should always start with
simple vegetables like green beans or
potatoes to keep the oil clean easy way
to see if they're cooked is when you
start to see them float on the surface
of the oil sizzling hot then take them
out and drain oil on the baking sheet
and move on to the next vegetables we
are doing eggplant necks before you dip
the vegetable in no batter it's also
very important to keep them dry you
should wipe or air dry moisture from the
vegetables you see the eggplant on the
surface and they are ready to come out
finally the shrimp drop the shrimp in
the hot oil one by one easiest way to do
that is by hand but just be careful as
you know it doesn't take too long to
cook shrimp about a few minutes you
should see and feel when they are ready
now the shrimp is out and it's time to
eat you should eat it as soon as it's
done while it's still very hot sprinkle
some salt or dip it in the tension or
mentor sauce that you can get a recipe
on our website it's so good that you
don't even need to go to the restaurant
for this